Welcome, in this video I will teach
you about dynamic programming,
we will go through one example.
But once you understand that,
you'll be able to apply dynamic
programming to anything.
So you start by laying out
the problem like this,
where you have the source wordplay
here down the left column.
And then, the targets were to transform
into stay along the top row here and
an empty string placeholder.
Represented by the hashtag symbol
at the start of each string here.
The reason for this,
will make more sense in the steps ahead.
There are also some row and
column in this easier,
just to make things a bit
easier to follow along.
Now, the goal is to fill
out this distance matrix D.
Such that the element D 2, 3 for example,
refers to the minimum at
a distance from pl to sta.
Which is the first two
letters of the word play,
to the first three letters
of the target words stay.
Or more generally for any element in
the matrix by using this formula for
the element at row i and column j.
Being i equals two and j equal three,
in the example, pl to sta.
From the previous few slides, you know,
each D of ij will be
the minimum at the distance.
Between the beginning of
the source word to index i at
the beginning of the targets
word to index j.
So that's for a source of length m and
a target of length n,
when you get to the bottom
right corner D of mn.
You have the minimum edit
distance between the two strings.
You will compute this from the shortest
sub strength to the full strength that is.
Starting with the shortest string
in the top left corner and
working down then to the right.
The intuition is that you can build upon
each sub problem by combining solutions.
For example finding the minimum edit
distance between two letters is easy.
Then, you increase the problem
size one letter at a time,
building on what you already know.
If this seems confusing at first,
don't worry, it is but
it will start to make more sense
as you work through the examples.
But first before you get started,
recall the cost for
each edit, one for insert and
delete and two for replace.
Okay, so the first step is to
transform the source empty string,
enter the target's empty string.
The edit distance between
the source empty string and
the target empty string is zero.
There is no formula here,
it's just a special case so far, so good.
Okay, to change nothing to nothing,
you do nothing, good.
Then you can move on to
p to empty string and
you can do this where they do it at
its operation at the cost of one.
Then empty string to s,
which you can do with an insert at
this operation at the cost of one.
Now look at b two s,
there is more than one possible
way to make this transformation.
Each possible sequence of edits is
known as a path starting with b,
you can insert s on the end to get ps.
Then though is b from
the beginning to get s,
this has a cost of one inserts and
one delete.
At this point,
notice that you've already calculated
the cost of inserting a letter s.
It's found in this red box here on top,
when you calculate how to
get from empty string to s.
So you actually just calculate
the cost of deleting the p and
added onto the cost that you've
stored in the red box above.
This is one plus one equals two, in
the second possible path, starting with p.
You can delete b to get hashtag and
then insert s to get s,
notice again that you've already
calculated the cost of the deleting p.
In this blue box in the left,
the blue box is the cost of going
from p to hashtag by the deleting p.
So you can calculate
the cost of inserting p and
added to the cost that you've
stored in the blue box on the left.
This is one plus one equals two,
the third way is to replace p with s,
so that you go from p to s and
one step at the cost of two.
For replacement, visually you can
think of going from this green box and
jumping directly into the orange box.
The green box is the cost of not
doing any edit which is zero,
a replacement has a cost of two,
so zero plus two equals two.
Then, you take the minimum of all three of
these paths, which is a two in this case.
Then place that value in the cell,
which gives you the minimum
at a distance from p to s.
So working off what you've
already filled out,
you'll notice that to fill in the cell.
You need to know the cell above,
to the left and adjacent upper left,
shown in red, blue and green here.
In doing so, you can benefit from
some calculations already performed.
Soon, I'll show you how to generalize
this in a formula to fill out the rest of
the matrix.
But first, I will show you how to fill
out the first column and the first row.
So that every cell remaining
has its own red, blue and
green cells available as dependencies.
This is what's coming up next.
In this video, you learned about
the cost of each operation,
insert and deleting is one and
then, replacing is two.
You also saw how you can populate
your table, in the next video,
you will learn about a much
faster way to populate your table